No, I'm not gonna do it. I will not do it,
its a cheap sight gag and frankly my
audience is above it and so am I, alright, so--
[From off camera] You did it for John Wesley.
I know I did it for John Wesley
that's different, alright?
That was for a good reason this is not that, okay?
I'm not gonna do it. I absolutely
unequivocally will not do it....
[snare drum roll]
okay.. hi..
I'm a Sunday school teacher. Alright, last week I asked my--
no, I'm not doing a voice. Not gonna do it.
This is enough--
Last week I asked my Sunday school class
uh, you know, if they thought Noah did a lot of fishing on the ark?
"How could he"
replied Billy, "with only two worms?"
Told you it wasn't funny.
It's not funny. None of this is funny, it doesn't
work alright
and why does a Sunday school teacher
have to be a woman? Alright, lots of men
are Sunday school teachers. I am a Sunday school teacher and this, the boa?!
Inexplicable! I've never seen a Sunday
school teacher wear a boa!
To class...[pfftt].
It's sexist.
[From off camera] It's funny.
Whatever, let's just-- we're talking about Sunday School
on this episode of Chuck Knows Church or whatever, alright?
[behind camera laughing]
[intro music]
Originally Sunday Schools were literally
schools. They were places where poor
children can learn to read.
Some historians point to Saint Mary's Church in Nottingham
as the place the first Sunday school may have been
opened in 1751.
Now in 1769 Hannah Ball from Buckinghamshire, England founded the school as well.
But it was Robert Raikes, editor of
the Gloucester Journal
and an Anglican evangelical who became
the movement's
biggest promoter in Britain in the 1780s,
and soon spread to America. Now religious
denominations and non-denominational
organizations alike
were quickly on board to create Sunday schools.
You see, the Industrial Revolution meant many children spent all week in the factories
working long, long hours and Saturday was
actually part of the work week.
So, Sunday was the only time for these
children to
be educated in school. Now this prompted
Christian philanthropist who
wanted these children out of a life of illiteracy to get them
into Sunday school. Now the Bible was the
textbook used for learning to read and
children learn to write by copying scriptures
and teaching Christian morality and
virtues, well, that was always
another major goal. Now the early eighteen hundreds,
marked the the spread of Sunday
schools in America and within decades
they were encouraged
everywhere. Sunday school attendance was
commonplace and soon
it was an accepted part of childhood all
around the world.
By the eighteen seventies, in both
Britain and America, when compulsory
State Education was established
reading and writing were learned on weekdays at school
and Sunday school curriculum was limited
to religious education.
Still, many parents continue to believe regular
Sunday school attendance
was an essential part of childhood. And
although Sunday school attendance has declined
many reasons given; growing secular
society, other options on Sundays, despite
all the obvious factors, if we are diligent
about meeting children where they are
today with all the crazy distractions
and competing demands
Sunday School will not end anytime soon.
To learn more you can ask your pastor or
your Sunday school teacher perhaps.
You can tell them Chuck sent ya.
There's still some on my lips, isn't there?
It's on my teeth? Feel like its on my teeth, I can taste it.
[behind camera laughing]